# comp163-assignment-5
This code is divided into three parts. Part one is using the Collatz Conjecture sequence, where your input number is divided by two if it's even or multiplied by three one added to the value until it reaches the number one. This is thanks to the use of conditionals(EX: If current_number!=1:)  and incrementing (EX:step_count+=1) while printing the result for that iteration for the loop. This is achieved using a “while” loop to ensure the numbers are >1 and to run the inputted number to determine if it's odd or even, changing the value until it's equal to one. Another while loop is used to loop until your input value is not negative. The second part had you simply determine if an imputed value, input_pos, is positive and prime or not. If negative, a while loop will continue until your input changes to positive. This also includes a for loop, which will loop to access the starting at one and ending at your value (input_pos) minus one. Conditionals are used and modulo as well to determine if the modulo of input_pos and the current range value in the iteration (i) is zero to see if it's not prime, immediately breaking it out of the loop due to it already being solved. If not solved, it will be determined to be prime, with the variable is_Prime turning to true. Based on the result, the print will output if the value is prime or not. Part three creates a grid using rows and columns, this is used using nested for loops to print the increasing values both using ranges from 1 to 11 (EX: for rows in range(1,11):), as this grid will span from 1—->100 as it multiplies the values in the column by the number on the row and prints the result for each round. 